Here's a fun experiment.
We'll push a repository with a gigabyte
of data to another machine twice.
The first push carries everything,
and the second carries only what changed.
Watch the numbers,
the push command prints exactly how much
it moved.
The trick is in the setup.
After the first push,
the CLI keeps an identical immutable
base image on both machines.
The next push compares blocks against
that base and sends only the
difference.
No flags,
no bookkeeping,
it's the same push command.
The first push to another machine carries
the whole image,
and the output says it plainly:
two gigabytes transferred,
marked full.
This is the baseline.
Two gigabytes in forty-four seconds,
marked full.
The CLI also kept an identical base on
both sides;
that's the setup for the magic.
Change a little data:
fifty megabytes out of two gigabytes.
A small change in a big image.
Push again.
Same command,
but read the output this time:
about fifty megabytes transferred,
marked delta,
against a two gigabyte image.
Only the changed blocks travelled.
Fifty megabytes in under six seconds,
out of a two gigabyte image.
The numbers are the proof.
Both machines hold the same repository,
refreshed in seconds.
Run it hourly if you like — the
cost is the change,
not the size.
Frequent backups stop being expensive.
Small changes mean small transfers,
every time after the first.
Just one tutorial left now:
making sure you never run out of
disk.
See you in the final one!